Let's recap some of the benefits we've seen so far just in this theory portion about unit testing.
So the benefits include adding confidence to your code.
What does that mean?
It means as your team thinks about that code base, they have more of a happy feeling that that 101st
feature will not break things.
When there's a lack of confidence, you're a bit shy to add features, particularly in certain areas
of the code base where you know things are held together quite loosely and a new line of code could
break something.
It also allows for bolder refactors.
Now, for example, if you're going to be refactoring a particular system in your game and you have
no testing, the process would be play the game and have your team play it.
Do all the work of the refactor, then play your game again.
The problem with that manual testing is it's more time consuming.
It's more challenging to be sure that the test before and after the refactor are the same, and testing
the same areas as well.
So by having some unit tests covering those systems before the refactor, you're able to run the tests,
see that everything passes, that the automation that you've had there works well.
Then run those exact same tests after the refactor.
You might find along the way that some of the tests fail.
You're able to make some changes.
The test pass.
You may even add new tests because the refactor needs them, and then your code now sits in an even
better place with more code confidence after that refactor.
This also saves time.
It will feel when you're starting with unit testing that this is an extra, maybe even.
It feels a little unnecessary in certain systems, but we're going to stretch on that.
We're going to work on that area and see how and when you want to add your unit tests.
Each developer will find their own style, and as a team, you want to come together and establish some
good best practices that you can all follow.
The results here, you'll have more confidence and robustness in your code base, as I've mentioned,
and the effect on your code base isn't just that it's the same old code with tests.
It's that the very nature of testing will influence how you design your code.
To make testable code, things need to work in smaller units or smaller classes with less code in them,
and that encourages us to have a single purpose to each class and method, which is a good design practice.
We'll see that in software design section.
It also encourages more simple solutions, especially when we talk about test driven development.
Now having this automated testing, which means unit tests as part of your code base that are automatically
called and retried periodically, that is what's going to really give you the best benefit here.
Now, some teams will use the unit testing inside unity, which is going to be the focus of our talk
here.
You can also take that skill and have your git repo or other version control system automatically run
those tests at key moments, perhaps daily or nightly, or each time your team commits to a certain
branch, it will run the test again.
So there's elegant ways that you can increase the frequency at which this is called, and then only
merge your code together if all the tests pass.